README.md, before:

# beaker-docker

Beaker library to use docker hypervisor

# How to use this wizardry

This gem that allows you to use hosts with [docker](docker.md) hypervisor with [beaker](https://github.com/puppetlabs/beaker). 

### Right Now? (beaker 3.x)

This gem is already included as [beaker dependency](https://github.com/puppetlabs/beaker/blob/master/beaker.gemspec) for you, so you don't need to do anything special to use this gem's functionality with beaker.

### In beaker's Next Major Version? (beaker 4.x)

In beaker's next major version, the requirement for beaker-docker will be pulled
from that repo. When that happens, then the usage pattern will change. In order
to use this then, you'll need to include beaker-docker as a dependency right
next to beaker itself.

# Spec tests

Spec test live under the `spec` folder. There are the default rake task and therefore can run with a simple command:
```bash
bundle exec rake test:spec
```

# Acceptance tests

There is a simple rake task to invoke acceptance test for the library: 
```bash
bundle exec rake test:acceptance
```

# Contributing

Please refer to puppetlabs/beaker's [contributing](https://github.com/puppetlabs/beaker/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) guide.

Commit message:

(BKR-1509) Hypervisor usage instructions for Beaker 4..0

README.md, after:

# beaker-docker

Beaker library to use docker hypervisor

# How to use this wizardry

This gem that allows you to use hosts with [docker](docker.md) hypervisor with [beaker](https://github.com/puppetlabs/beaker).

Beaker will automatically load the appropriate hypervisors for any given hosts file, so as long as your project dependencies are satisfied there's nothing else to do. No need to `require` this library in your tests.

## With Beaker 3.x

This library is included as a dependency of Beaker 3.x versions, so there's nothing to do.

## With Beaker 4.x

As of Beaker 4.0, all hypervisor and DSL extension libraries have been removed and are no longer dependencies. In order to use a specific hypervisor or DSL extension library in your project, you will need to include them alongside Beaker in your Gemfile or project.gemspec. E.g.

~~~ruby
# Gemfile
gem 'beaker', '~>4.0'
gem 'beaker-aws'
# project.gemspec
s.add_runtime_dependency 'beaker', '~>4.0'
s.add_runtime_dependency 'beaker-aws'
~~~

# Spec tests

Spec test live under the `spec` folder. There are the default rake task and therefore can run with a simple command:
```bash
bundle exec rake test:spec
```

# Acceptance tests

There is a simple rake task to invoke acceptance test for the library: 
```bash
bundle exec rake test:acceptance
```

# Contributing

Please refer to puppetlabs/beaker's [contributing](https://github.com/puppetlabs/beaker/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) guide.
